GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm Gw
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: An es
leads to a standoff in Europe --
response on the surge of migrant
William Brangham reports from Hu
voices from another great migrat
GABOR MALINA, Hungary: A lot of
are angry because of the migrant
they think, oh, my God, we have
much money to take care of these
GWEN IFILL: Also ahead this Wedn
rivals unite, hoping to spark a
revolt that will derail a Capito
on the Iran nuclear deal.
Plus: the front lines of wildfir
West. A force nearly 10,000-stro
to keep blazes at bay during one
fire seasons on record.
CAT WISE: Throughout the West, w
have become the norm, fire manag
a tough time keeping up with all
for firefighters and firefightin
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: The United States is
take more of the many thousands
and the Middle East. The Associa
reported today the Obama adminis
accept at least 5,000 additional
next year. Meanwhile, Europe fac
over a proposal to relocate 160,
have much more after the news su
In Syria, al-Qaida rebels and ot
captured a key air base in a new
Assad government. Their victory
all of a major province is now f
control. Militants besieged the
two years and posed today for vi
State TV confirmed the military
the site.
As Damascus faces new battlefiel
there are growing signs of a Rus
buildup backing the regime. Mosc
today its military advisers are
in Syria.
MARIA ZAKHAROVA, Spokeswoman, Ru
Ministry (through translator): O
has long been supplying arms and
equipment to Syria, in accordanc
contracts. There are also Russia
experts in Syria who are instruc
on the use of the military syste
The weapons are aimed at combati
threat that has risen to an unpr
scale in Syria and in neighborin
GWEN IFILL: The Russians still d
forces are actually taking part
and they accused the West of cre
In Washington, a spokesman said
of State Kerry spoke by phone wi
foreign minister.
JOHN KIRBY, Pentagon Press Secre
our concern about these reports
military activities or buildup,
in Syria, and made very clear ou
if true and if borne out, those
be -- could lead to greater viol
-- even more instability in Syri
GWEN IFILL: There was also word
is letting Russian planes fly ov
to Syria, but Iran's supreme lea
discussing the issue with the U.
Ali Khamenei told a group in Teh
talks about the nuclear issue sp
We have not allowed with the U.S
fields, and we will not."
Just yesterday, Iranian Presiden
said Tehran was open to talks on
Al-Qaida's leader today dismisse
Islamic State group as illegitim
audio statement, Ayman al-Zawahr
"We don't recognize this calipha
also said his followers should j
attacking U.S. coalition forces
in Iraq and Syria.
Back in this country, the Califo
Assembly voted to let the termin
their lives with a doctor's assi
bill now goes to the state Senat
expected to endorse it. Four sta
Oregon, Montana, and Vermont, ha
legalized assisted suicide.
Thousands of teachers in Seattle
today after failing to get a new
The walkout came on what was sup
the first day of school and kept
home. Seattle teachers have gone
without a cost-of-living raise.
President Obama made a pitch tod
appeal to make two years of comm
tuition-free for all who want it
has gone nowhere in Congress, bu
college in Warren, Michigan, the
charged his opponents are badly
BARACK OBAMA, President of the U
At a time when we should be grow
in job training and apprenticesh
got Republicans in Congress who
in the opposite direction. Some
about shutting down the governme
end of the month. That's what wo
if Congress fails to pass a budg
be wildly irresponsible.
GWEN IFILL: Despite the impact i
the president pointed to half-a-
that are moving to make communit
free.
New York City will be the first
to make chain restaurants add sa
to their menus. The city's board
voted today for the mandate. It
with more than the recommended d
of 2,300 milligrams of sodium, a
worth. The average American cons
3,400 milligrams a day.
On Wall Street, an early rally c
oil prices fell sharply on the d
end, the Dow Jones industrial av
nearly 240 points to close back
The Nasdaq fell 55 points and th
27.
And the National Geographic Soci
its storied magazine and related
to the FOX media conglomerate. T
said FOX will buy a majority sta
million. Nat Geo said the deal w
its endowment to nearly $1 billi
also help fund science and resea
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
another great migration; Republi
to delay a vote on the Iran nucl
and much more.
European Union Commission Presid
Juncker announced new plans toda
the continent's massive influx o
and refugees. They would require
to absorb a share of 160,000 asy
now flocking to Italy, Greece an
with mandatory quotas.
Juncker also pushed for strength
border and Coast Guard, and he e
countries to allow asylum seeker
We will be talking to the E.U.'s
to Washington in a few moments,
we take a look at the people on
lines of the crisis.
We begin with a report from our
Brangham near the Serbia-Hungary
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The steady flo
and other refugees and migrants
Hungary's borders is the constan
Hungarian press.
These are local news reports. Th
screen there calls this a -- quo
Here, the words say -- quote --
could be coming."
As Hungarians see this constant
images of refugees, many of them
for their scariest possible impa
why some locals in nearby towns
concerned.
In Szeged, the largest town near
border with Serbia -- that's the
most of the migrants here are cr
heard several worries about the
newcomers from the Middle East.
MAN: It's a different culture. T
will never be an inherent part o
GABOR MALINA, Hungary: A lot of
are angry because of the migrant
they think, oh, my God, we have
much money to take care of these
have to give them food, accommod
WOMAN: It's a bit hard to handle
there are so many people. And I
is a problem, that there are so
and we don't really have a solut
with this many people.
OLIVER MADANI, Hungary: The Syri
should come because they are in
the refugees that are looking fo
life, maybe they should start ma
lives in their country, rather t
a better one in another place.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But Lenard Low
Sun City tattoo shop in Szeged,
his country is overburdened righ
if other nations help out, this
be solved.
LENARD LOWY, Business Owner: (th
We can't speak only about Hungar
are in the European Union, so I
a unified solution. They should
to establish refugee camps and r
Police should also receive more
can tackle this crisis.
But even Europe is not able to t
more refugees, so a line should
But the Hungarian government has
ineffectively. The fact that all
are stuck in Roszke is absurd.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Hungary's prim
Viktor Orban, doesn't seem to sh
belief, warning repeatedly that
must defend its Christian tradit
this coming wave of Muslims, the
being, Refugees will inevitably
fabric of Hungary for the worse.
Opinion polls have shown very st
for the prime minister's positio
not a universal belief. In Szege
sat down with these two Hungaria
Zimoni is torn over the plight o
as well as the European nations
to grapple with them.
GYORGY ZIMONI, Hungary (through
My opinion has two levels. On th
I feel sorry for the migrants, a
they're in are very hard. But I
sorry for the whole country. The
prepared for this, just as all o
prepared for this wave. We can s
of this.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: George's frien
Abdul Latif-Zanda, is originally
but he is now a Hungarian citize
he's living proof that practicin
can integrate into European soci
ABDUL LATIF-ZANDA, Hungary (thro
I have lived here for 30 years n
never had a problem with anyone,
political nor religious reasons.
that you should lead a decent li
should treat others fairly. Ther
others, however, who use religio
or whatever else to convince poo
to do stupid things. In Europe,
a normal life. And if you are no
will be accepted.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Many of the re
migrants we met this week in Hun
Said Halabi, who fled Syria with
and three children, said that th
shouldn't be the cause for alarm
SAID HALABI, Refugee: We hope th
people understand that diversity
is good for them. We are looking
a new life for our children, whe
access schools, where I can get
my family.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Another Syrian
Basel Esa, who we found practici
outside a migrant processing cen
those who think all refugees wil
Europe's public services are wro
BASEL ESA, Hungary: For me, I do
luxury life. I just want to live
place, just normal life, peacefu
a good job. That's it. I don't w
else. I don't want to cause any
anyone. I don't want -- because
a problem for us.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For the "PBS N
I'm William Brangham in Szeged,
GWEN IFILL: The surge of Syrian
in Europe may be relatively new,
caused by the war has spilled ov
countries for more than four yea
Perhaps nowhere is that more pro
in neighboring Lebanon, where on
of the country's residents are r
Alex Thomson of Independent Tele
reports from Beirut, where many
Syrians, particularly the margin
contemplating a new life in Euro
ALEX THOMSON: The next wave is a
to Europe. Living on the edge in
there is only so much any human
take.
WOMAN (through translator): You
see for yourself. It's really ba
ALEX THOMSON: So we did. In thro
flooding passageway, yet three f
our heads, the entire building i
bomb damage, too dangerous for h
say the authorities.
Officially, the entire block is
to live in. Down below, Ftaym Ar
mom, five children, pays $130 a
one stinking, damp room, which c
any time.
FTAYM ARAFAT, Refugee (through t
Definitely, things are getting m
here. My son was studying in Syr
has to work. I feel bad for him.
ALEX THOMSON: Every time there i
with the water, and that is ofte
to come up to the roof to sort i
says conditions are so bad livin
she wants to go back to her old
was an underground garage, where
were living together and being c
a month, better, she says, than
Two floors down, here's Mohamed
yes, the Islamic State's headqua
says, "I just want to get out of
country, please."
Across Beirut, across Lebanon, t
things breaking down here. To ca
historic sandstorm has descended
of which few people here can eve
The capital is pockmark with pil
on the face of it, a humdrum mun
but it's actually about governme
the sense of things not working,
protests near the parliament.
So, the Lebanese government has
have had enough. They're pushing
out of their country by banning
from working.
So, come with me to the Shatila
refugee camp in South Beirut and
of this.
MAN: I want to go to the England
ALEX THOMSON: To England?
MAN: Yes.
ALEX THOMSON: Mohamed Sitan, his
and double refugee, he's fled fr
refugee camp of Yarmouk in Syria
Anglophile, but he has his doubt
You like Churchill? You like Mar
MAN: Yes. But Mr. Cameron must -
us. Mr. Cameron, I don't underst
ALEX THOMSON: His father, Aisa (
with the British army in the Sec
War from El Alamein to Norway.
MAN: My father in the army, Engl
Nazis.
ALEX THOMSON: But they can't tak
of this.
WOMAN (through translator): If p
like my husband, I would like to
or England, or even Norway perha
ALEX THOMSON: She says: "We need
try to get to Europe. We're nowh
So they struggle on here day by
their son who has profound learn
and the daily grind of food, ren
power cuts.
On Beirut's famous Corniche, sur
is normal, but across this count
push and pull, the push of a gov
cannot cope and wants perhaps tw
refugees gone, probably to Europ
pull, these refugees in their mi
the E.U. welcome on television,
Twitter. They see the welcome. T
hope.
GWEN IFILL: That's Alex Thomson
Joining us now to talk about tha
pull, and the announced proposal
help remedy the crisis, is the E
ambassador to the United States,
Welcome.
DAVID O'SULLIVAN, European Union
to the United States: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: So let's talk about
put forth today to take -- to ac
of these migrants and refugees a
them somehow among different cou
the E.U. How feasible is that?
DAVID O'SULLIVAN: I think it's e
I mean, you need to understand,
that this is basically a proposa
to relieve the immediate pressur
countries in Europe who've had t
brunt of the increased wave of r
Italy and Greece coming from the
and now Hungary through the rout
Balkans.
It's clear that these companies,
efforts though they have made --
and Greek people have been extre
in their reaction -- it is more
can cope with, so we do need a r
of people already on European so
all of our member states, so the
be shared more equitably.
But this is not the only action
proposed, of course. We're also
stepping up action across the bo
are the largest donor of humanit
to the refugees in Turkey, Jorda
But, as your report has shown, t
there is at breaking point, and
of the push that the internation
will also need to address.
GWEN IFILL: A lot at the breakin
emotions.
DAVID O'SULLIVAN: Indeed.
GWEN IFILL: I want to talk about
though, because you're saying th
that's where you begin, not wher
end.
And you're talking about enforci
in place, mandating quotas, cert
have to accept a certain amount.
enforce that?
DAVID O'SULLIVAN: Indeed.
Well, this would be adopted as E
legislation, which means that th
what member states have to imple
the member states will adopt thi
Enforcement of European law is n
The challenge will be -- I openl
to get member states to agree to
themselves legally mandatory quo
But I think that this is the cha
President Juncker of the Europea
has laid down, and Vice Presiden
speaking publicly, have all said
immediate challenge is a challen
common European commitment to hu
to humanitarian values and of co
international obligations to wel
in decent conditions.
I emphasize this is not to be co
conflated with the more general
migration or freedom of movement
European Union. This is a very s
linked to people fleeing persecu
GWEN IFILL: If you're the govern
or of Hungary, as we just saw, a
not necessarily on board with th
you persuade them to vote for th
members of the E.U. in good stan
-- why would they do this?
DAVID O'SULLIVAN: Well, I think
argument as to why Europe has a
in this situation to live up to
commitments to treat refugees de
hold them in conditions, decent
while they are processed and the
for asylum is assessed.
And this is not easy to do in th
which you have seen in Hungary,
which we know exist on some of t
which are literally overrun not
numbers of people, seen as a pro
the European population, but for
and these specific municipalitie
it is more than they can reasona
to cope with.
And I think it's absolutely reas
expect that all of Europe, all 2
show solidarity with our member
are struggling and with these re
are generally fleeing persecutio
But, of course, this is not the
The European commission has prop
approach. It involved, as you kn
in the Mediterranean. We have re
hundreds of thousands of people
We are looking at the origins of
the crisis in Syria, the crisis
We're looking at...
GWEN IFILL: Which I want to get
but I want to go back a -- backw
bit. How did it get so bad, and
seem like it took the E.U. so lo
in a unified way?
DAVID O'SULLIVAN: Well, I would
second observation.
I don't think it has taken us ve
I think we have been extremely a
for several months. I mean, we p
first proposals back in May, and
the search-and-rescue activities
and have saved many thousands of
the interim.
Why is the situation becoming so
I think there are two reasons. O
breakdown of law and order in Li
allowed it to become a transit s
any control over the exit of ref
into the hands of smugglers. And
as I think your very interesting
heartrending report from the cam
showed, the Syrian refugees are
four or five years in camps in L
Jordan, and in Turkey.
Those countries are doing their
a country like Lebanon, as we kn
own problems, and to be asked to
one million or more refugees is
you can ask of them. So then the
for these refugees have become i
difficult. And, of course, they
and anxious to try and escape to
life, which they hoped for in Eu
GWEN IFILL: And, finally, is the
responsibility that goes beyond
We saw today the U.S. was talkin
settlers being allowed here. Are
shirking their responsibilities,
more than they could be doing?
DAVID O'SULLIVAN: I think there
the international community coul
I think the Gulf states, the Ara
have a responsibility to help th
in Jordan and Lebanon and Turkey
a global problem. The E.U. is no
to shirk its responsibilities. I
will step up to the plate and do
and more than what is needed.
But, frankly, the dimension of t
is such that we will need a glob
as indeed the secretary-general
Nations has called for.
GWEN IFILL: Ambassador to the U.
E.U. David O'Sullivan, thank you
DAVID O'SULLIVAN: Thank you very
GWEN IFILL: Presidential politic
Capitol Hill today, as Republica
joined with lawmakers to protest
nuclear deal.
Political director Lisa Desjardi
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), Presidenti
God bless the United States of A
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: Republican pres
and rivals Donald Trump and Ted
forces to slam the nuclear deal
SEN. TED CRUZ: Let's rise up and
elected official in Washington,
no more show votes. Get it done.
deal!
LISA DESJARDINS: Thousands gathe
west lawn of the U.S. Capitol to
speeches, many using umbrellas f
the 90-degree Washington heat.
WOMAN: If this deal goes through
scared for our country.
FRED GORDON, Protester: I don't
deal. And I think it's going to
the long run.
LISA DESJARDINS: The Texas senat
the event, along with Tea Party
but the star of the show was cle
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential C
Never, ever, ever in my life hav
transaction so incompetently neg
our deal in Iran. And I mean nev
LISA DESJARDINS: Hours earlier,
Capitol, Secretary of State John
much of the opposition as irrele
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of St
that the people who count are th
who have made up their minds. Th
that matters right now. And if D
and Ted Cruz and Dick Cheney wan
face of the opposition, that's t
LISA DESJARDINS: The 42 senators
who support the deal and could b
move to disapprove it. With that
Kerry and Energy Secretary Ernes
to pressure Republicans to move
JOHN KERRY: We hope that the Sen
move rapidly to do the business
not of a party, but the business
LISA DESJARDINS: But all the wor
the drama inside the U.S. Capito
will not change the legislative
Iran deal. President Obama has m
votes for it to survive in the U
But the rally outside and other
may indicate the real future of
as a hot issue for 2016. Democra
Hillary Clinton laid out her vie
speech. She acknowledged that th
is not perfect, but maintained i
way to keep Iran from developing
bomb.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D), Pres
Either we move forward on the pa
and seize this chance to block I
to a nuclear weapon, or we turn
dangerous path, leading to a far
and riskier future.
LISA DESJARDINS: And on the Sena
her Democratic rival Bernie Sand
critics of the deal to those who
go war with Iraq in 2003.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I), Pres
Unfortunately, these individuals
nothing from the results of that
policy and how it destabilized t
region.
LISA DESJARDINS: The Iran deal s
to figure again in the next Repu
debate. That's a week from now.
for Congress to vote is the next
Lisa Desjardins, "PBS NewsHour,"
GWEN IFILL: Tonight, we hear fro
a unique relationship to the Ira
Retired career diplomat and form
Secretary of State William Burns
secret negotiating team that met
Iranian representatives in Oman
first in 2008 under President Ge
and then in earnest in 2013, whe
and Rouhani governments revived
Burns' role, which wasn't reveal
2013, continued even during the
up until the final agreement was
July.
Chief foreign affairs correspond
Warner sat down with Ambassador
in Washington to ask him about t
whether Iran will truly comply.
MARGARET WARNER: William Burns,
for joining us.
WILLIAM BURNS, Former U.S. Deput
of State: It's a pleasure to be
MARGARET WARNER: Now that it's c
the president has at least the v
to get this Iran deal through so
it matter internationally whethe
do it by veto or whether he is a
finesse having a vote at all?
WILLIAM BURNS: Well, I think the
this can be accomplished on the
the better it is for the United
a demonstration of our commitmen
agreement, and then to focus on
which is going to be a real chal
all of us.
MARGARET WARNER: Now, there are
members of Congress who are talk
about, once the deal goes throug
new sanctions on Iran, unilatera
are non-nuclear-related.
Would that throw a monkey wrench
either on the Iranian or on the
side?
WILLIAM BURNS: It could, is the
So, I think the real issue here
measures at this point, and it's
rigorous implementation of those
which already exist to push back
behavior, whether it's support f
in the region directly through p
human rights practices that we h
to condemn.
MARGARET WARNER: So do you mean
than we are now?
WILLIAM BURNS: Yes, I think ther
that we can do working with othe
to interdict arms shipments to H
as well as to Houthis in Yemen.
in a stronger position to do tha
we're moving ahead with implemen
the nuclear agreement.
MARGARET WARNER: Given how polit
this issue has been, with all th
lining up against it, how hopefu
that in fact this deal will real
fully on the U.S. end, without c
to undermine it?
WILLIAM BURNS: Well, I think it'
in the U.S. interest, notwithsta
bitter debate that's gone on ove
to implement the agreement, so l
Iranians are living up to their
which is why I think it's really
in the first year of implementat
sides live up to their obligatio
I think that builds some momentu
then be sustained over the entir
the agreement.
MARGARET WARNER: As we know, the
raised many different charges ab
And one vote that the president
was Ben Cardin, senator from Mar
Democrat on the Foreign Relation
And one of his big concerns is t
that it's going to free up for t
which he says are sure to be spe
foment greater terrorism in the
What do you say to that? What co
do about that?
WILLIAM BURNS: Well, I think, fi
say there are risks in any optio
pursue with regard to the Irania
issue, and there are honest conc
as those that Senator Cardin has
The truth is that it's only a su
$140 billion that the Iranians w
have access to that's not alread
whether it's to long-term projec
Chinese or others, so it's maybe
or $55 billion. That's still an
of money.
And some of that money surely is
go to the kind of purposes the I
demonstrated before, whether it'
for proxies in the region or eff
other parts of the Middle East.
in the end that it's going to ha
determinative effect on, you kno
the Iranians continue to pursue
And, as I said before, there is
we and others can do to push bac
that behavior over time.
MARGARET WARNER: And more than w
now?
WILLIAM BURNS: I think that's tr
MARGARET WARNER: Now, do you exp
-- you have dealt with them more
anybody in the United States gov
you expect them to try to cheat,
violate around the edges the act
WILLIAM BURNS: Well, I think the
you know, any areas of ambiguity
perceive, which is why I think i
to be very important, especially
months, the first year of implem
that we and our partners are qui
in the execution of this agreeme
MARGARET WARNER: Now, when you s
they will test it, do you think
test it openly, essentially, or
will try to do something sub ros
to be caught?
WILLIAM BURNS: I think it's more
around the edges, where they see
areas of ambiguity in the agreem
think that's why it's just very
to hold them to their obligation
the very start of this.
MARGARET WARNER: Both sides talk
decades of distrust between our
Do you think all these months of
negotiations have in any way eas
WILLIAM BURNS: There is a lot of
that persists. There are a lot o
differences that persist, and we
very clear-eyed about that.
But I think we have built up thr
of the negotiations the last few
amount of professional respect.
negotiators with whom I dealt di
very tough-minded, skillful nego
I think, over time, I wouldn't s
eliminated the mistrust between
that's going to endure for some
I do think we built up a fair am
respect, and that's important wh
trying to get anything done.
MARGARET WARNER: Now, just yeste
Rouhani said he could imagine th
the U.S. and Saudi Arabia could
in trying to resolve the Syrian
Do you expect something like tha
once this deal is implemented?
WILLIAM BURNS: I honestly don't
overnight transformation of Iran
whether it's with regard to the
or U.S.-Iranian relations.
MARGARET WARNER: Meaning they're
Hafez Assad, they're still suppo
They're accused of shipping weap
WILLIAM BURNS: Yes, I think the
Iranian leadership has a pretty
view of its interests in Syria.
there is going to be any overnig
It's going to take time and it's
be a very complicated process.
It's not an argument against mak
It's just an argument for being
about it.
MARGARET WARNER: And, of course,
unresolved conflict has unleashe
absolute migrant crisis in Europ
were still the deputy secretary
you were still advising the secr
and the president, what would yo
the U.S. should do right now in
the migrant situation?
WILLIAM BURNS: Yes, it's certain
human tragedy.
I think there is more that the U
can do in terms of taking in mor
than we do today. I think there
can do working with key European
Chancellor Merkel, who has made
willingness to take in a lot mor
The United States can be proud o
we have made to supporting refug
(CROSSTALK)
MARGARET WARNER: Writing a check
WILLIAM BURNS: Right.
But I think there is more that w
not only in terms of taking in r
Miliband, the head of the Intern
Committee, called for the United
take in more than 60,000. I thin
to do at least that much.
But I think there is also more t
do to try to stabilize the situa
everything we can to revive the
effort to produce a political tr
Syria. Much easier said than don
I don't see how you come to grip
migration crisis unless you begi
the deeper political crisis in S
the region.
MARGARET WARNER: William Burns,
so much.
WILLIAM BURNS: Thanks.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": tho
their lives on the line to keep
from spreading; and Queen Elizab
royal history, becoming Great Br
reigning monarch.
United Airlines
The announcement took the airlin
and the business world by surpri
of United Airlines resigned afte
closed yesterday amid a federal
The inquiry focuses on potential
may have granted for the former
New York and New Jersey Port Aut
Jeffrey Brown picks up the story
JEFFREY BROWN: The investigation
was looking into whether United
flights from Newark, New Jersey,
South Carolina, even though thos
were losing money and had been d
Columbia is near the weekend hom
Samson, former chairman of the P
United, in return, allegedly wan
done at Newark Airport, which wa
by Samson.
United's CEO, Jeff Smisek, had l
since it merged with Continental
but that merger has been anythin
Yesterday, amid the new turmoil,
two other United officials resig
Scott Mayerowitz covers this for
George Hamlin is an airline indu
and consultant.
Welcome to both of you.
Scott Mayerowitz, let me start w
Trading favors, cronyism, inside
it's quite a tale. Tell us a lit
the alleged dealings here.
SCOTT MAYEROWITZ, Associated Pre
this is one of those scandals th
with the closing of a few lanes
and has now led to the toppling
of the second largest airline in
We look at this and, basically,
the flights were one of the issu
wanted more improvements to its
also wanted to get a direct rail
Wall Street to Newark. And it ap
that executives were willing to
it took to make the Port Authori
happy so they would approve thes
JEFFREY BROWN: And all of this i
from this prior investigation th
will remember from a couple of y
Governor Chris Christie and some
at least some of his aides.
SCOTT MAYEROWITZ: Yes. And this
the Port Authority of New York a
It doesn't just operate the thre
But they pretty much control all
tunnels and many of the roads in
And there were political allies
Christie who allegedly shut down
to the George Washington Bridge,
busiest bridges in the region, i
nation, and a whole investigatio
around that and has now led to q
what the interactions were betwe
and the officials at the Port Au
who knows where this is going to
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, where are w
investigation? Because these res
came yesterday before anything h
been made public, right, certain
any action by the federal author
SCOTT MAYEROWITZ: That's right.
Back in February, United disclos
of its executives had received s
the federal government. They wen
the same time and said they were
their own internal investigation
yesterday, they abruptly announc
of their CEO, plus two senior ex
the government affairs division
They didn't say what their inves
up exactly, but just said, becau
results of that investigation, t
executives, including the CEO, w
the airline.
So the real question is, what di
out, and what does the federal g
have that they're looking at als
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, George Hamli
already been calls for Jeff Smis
but for a completely different r
because of the aftermath of the
Continental.
GEORGE HAMLIN, Airline Industry
yesterday, lost in all this nois
fact the computer system had ano
I think that's the third of this
the fifth overall.
Yes, there has been discussion o
been five years. Why isn't it fi
JEFFREY BROWN: Tell us about it.
been the problems that -- becaus
a lot of hope originally, right,
might be a good mix between Unit
GEORGE HAMLIN: Yes, this is one
that has created the U.S. big th
carrier array.
And I, for one, thought the Smis
gone a good job at Continental.
good things at United. Now, mask
some degree, United went through
it was very lengthy, took severa
my opinion is, they didn't get t
as much as they needed to.
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: Cost in terms of?
GEORGE HAMLIN: Operating costs.
JEFFREY BROWN: Operating, labor.
GEORGE HAMLIN: Personnel -- pers
The previous management basicall
order any new aircraft. They did
in the business, so that to some
new team may have been walking i
where, fine, it was kept alive a
order, but may not have been the
in that respect.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, you mentione
yet another computer glitch.
GEORGE HAMLIN: And some of that
is trying to merge computer syst
five years.
JEFFREY BROWN: So now there's a
has been named, Oscar Munoz. And
a member of the United board to
What's the challenge for him? Wh
next?
GEORGE HAMLIN: Well, the challen
he has pretty diverse experience
he had been in organizations tha
consumer finance. He was with Se
the freight transportation busin
led to the CSX railroad.
I don't see in his background a
contact, person-to-person type o
but he has got good solid experi
a very large, heavily unionized
company. And people I talked to
nobody has anything bad to say a
and I have heard some very good
well.
JEFFREY BROWN: Scott Mayerowitz,
the industry. What do you hear a
What do you think is the big cha
United now?
SCOTT MAYEROWITZ: I think the bi
for United is getting some of th
passengers back.
If you look at Delta, for instan
right now boasting about having
performance out there in the ind
big three airlines. And United h
behind there. And they have real
many of these frequent flyers wh
of thousands of dollars a year w
And they need to come down and s
those computer outages, have fli
and have flight attendants and g
who are happy and interact with
That is going to be a very big c
him coming in. But as George sai
have a great experience in the t
and logistics industry. And if t
about airlines, they are very co
logistical organizations, so hop
will be able to come in and try
some things out there.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, Scott, do yo
yet about how any of this may af
Christie, whether -- any specula
you're picking up already?
SCOTT MAYEROWITZ: That's been on
I think from day one in this inv
was, how high up does it go up?
one has linked anything directly
It's probably not going to help
career right now, but, as everyb
saying, his poll numbers have no
but up at this point.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Scott
and George Hamlin, thank you ver
GEORGE HAMLIN: Thank you.
SCOTT MAYEROWITZ: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Nearly 10,000 firefi
support staff are working to con
20 large blazes in Washington an
The region is experiencing one o
fire seasons on record.
Special correspondent Cat Wise r
time with the men and women on W
state's front lines, who have tr
from all over.
CAT WISE: Fire crews in North Ce
have had a busy summer. Nearly a
have burned in the region. And o
hardest-hit areas is the hilly m
in Okanogan County, where firefi
still hard at it and the workday
It's still dark when crews at th
fire camp begin gathering suppli
long day ahead. There's a line f
boxed lunches distributed from a
And the food tent delivers hot g
early risers.
MAN: Sausage and French toast?
MAN: Sounds grand. Thanks.
CAT WISE: This camp, like most f
was set up in less than 48 hours
need to support some 600 firefig
fire managers who are working to
group of fires in the county whi
burning since August.
MAN: Everybody have an incident
CAT WISE: At exactly 0600, 6:00
managers gather for the morning
Crews have made good progress in
to contain the fires, but some a
very active.
MAN: We had an injury yesterday.
evacuation protocols. Watch out
stump holes. Look out for those
Those are the things that are go
you.
CAT WISE: The firefighters here
aware of the dangers they face o
basis. Three of their colleagues
fire died, and another was criti
several weeks ago. Flags at the
at half-staff.
But the work must go on, and fir
soon pulling out of camp, headin
lines. We followed along, too, u
mountain road through areas that
smoldering. We met up with a str
California that had recently com
of big fires in that state; 29-y
May, like so many other firefigh
had little rest since June.
ANDREW MAY, Firefighter: My long
was about 26 days. Then I was of
and have been back for about eig
CAT WISE: May hustled off to joi
who were laying water hose throu
wooded area. After getting their
and new instructions from their
firefighters headed up a steep h
about 80 pounds of hose and equi
an active fire line.
Another big job for crews is sec
edges of the fire. This 30-foot-
line had been bulldozed earlier
but firefighters were worried it
to flare up again.
ANDREW HOSTAD, U.S. Forest Servi
get around a fire, the job isn't
CAT WISE: Andrew Hostad is a fir
specialist with the U.S. Forest
ANDREW HOSTAD: So much of what g
firefighting isn't the glory sho
big flames and that sort of thin
head down in the dirt, digging,
doing the really vital role of m
and securing that fire.
CAT WISE: More than 400 square m
burned here in Okanogan County n
border. It's now the largest wil
State's history. Throughout the
big fires have become the norm,
are having a tough time keeping
the demands for firefighters and
resources.
MAN: Evacuation levels are at le
CAT WISE: And nowhere is that sc
resources being felt more than a
Interagency Coordination Center
Oregon. Decisions are made here
firefighting equipment and perso
be dispatched throughout Oregon
CAROL CONNOLLY, Northwest Intera
Center: It's been a real challen
to mobilize and get our resource
they're needed as quickly as the
CAT WISE: Carol Connolly handles
at the coordination center. She
everything, from camp supplies t
has been in short supply this ye
fire crews, known as hotshots, a
in demand.
CAROL CONNOLLY: We were told abo
week of August from our national
we're not getting any more resou
we have inside our boundaries, t
were getting. So that's when we
and we borrow crews. And two fir
close together, one incident com
talk to the other and say, hey,
of your hotshot crews for an ope
to do a burnout. And so they wil
over and help, and send them bac
day.
CAT WISE: In fact, the wildfire
Central Washington has been so i
year that nearly anyone who can
asked to.
About 300 heavy equipment operat
special training so they could w
front lines. They were part of a
program, the first of its kind f
to enlist hundreds of locals wan
firefighters.
One of those offering to help wa
who was raised in the area and i
of a local Native American tribe
assigned to the finance division
camp in Okanogan County.
ANGELA DAVIS, Volunteer: I thoug
step up and come over and help o
firefighters protecting my nativ
look at all the people on the fr
and they're doing their work, an
what really goes on behind the s
that's kind of what I am taking
this, is that every link in a ch
CAT WISE: The call for help has
overseas.
JOHN COSTENARO, Firefighter: Oh,
even hesitate. As soon as I was
yes.
CAT WISE: Australian John Costen
of 70 firefighters who have been
his country and New Zealand to a
efforts. That hasn't happened si
bad fire season in 2008. Costena
from Victoria, says he has a ver
reason for wanting to help the f
in Washington.
JOHN COSTENARO: In 2009, Victori
the Black Saturday fires, very s
the worst in our history. And we
come over and assist us during t
And I wanted to repay that favor
I -- they came to my hometown an
a great deal.
CAT WISE: He is repaying that fa
supervising heavy equipment, lik
and walking about eight miles of
a day.
JOHN COSTENARO: The friendliness
Americans have shown me and my c
is overwhelming. It's quite -- p
hands with you in the street, an
you, and understanding you have
another country, and it's very a
to be felt welcome in another co
to assist.
CAT WISE: As crews get a better
the multiple fires in Central Wa
aided by recent precipitation an
some are now starting to shift t
other states. And many expect to
to south to California, where th
infamous Santa Ana winds start p
at this time of year and the fir
even busier.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Cat
County, Washington.
GWEN IFILL: Finally tonight: Bri
marks a milestone.
Tim Ewart of Independent Televis
the story.
TIM EWART: It was a routine roya
the reopening of a railway line,
was a momentous moment in the qu
She arrived from Balmoral, her e
highlands, where she had origina
to spend a quiet day. She was me
a moment not without irony, by S
first minister, Nicola Sturgeon.
Scottish National Party would li
links with the crown.
The queen was to be carried in s
the steam train Union of South A
was a day all about making journ
extraordinary so, touching seven
the four corners of the globe an
of many million people, the othe
miles from Edinburgh down to the
The queen's thoughts may have be
more somber journey many years a
1952, she flew back to London fr
the sudden death of her father,
VI. She had left a princess and
queen at just 25 years old.
As the Union of South Africa hea
a tide of tributes was gaining m
by the prime minister.
DAVID CAMERON, British Prime Min
it is, of course, typical of her
sense of service that she would
this day just like any other.
TIM EWART: The queen's first sto
station. It was a chance to meet
thousands of well-wishers who ha
to share her big day.
The queen was always uncomfortab
she regards as inextricably link
death of her great-great grandmo
such was the level of public and
in today's milestone in her reig
was in the end forced to respond
Nicola Sturgeon, passionate advo
independence, was now cheerleade
British monarch.
NICOLA STURGEON, Scottish First
Your Majesty, today, you become
reigning monarch in British hist
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
TIM EWART: And the queen herself
that there was more here than ju
of a railway.
QUEEN ELIZABETH II, United Kingd
including you, First Minister, h
noted another significance attac
although it is not one to which
aspired.
Inevitably, a long life can pass
My own is no exception. But I th
and the many others at home and
your touching messages of great
TIM EWART: A monarch who has tra
and met more people than any oth
the longest to reign over her su
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour" on
past four years, a rookie Rhode
has boosted morale and turned ar
elementary school that had been
for years. Her secret weapon? An
method called blended learning.
changing classrooms.
We have a story from The Heching
on our home page. That's www.PBS
And that's the "NewsHour" for to
Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here to
For all of us here at the "PBS N
thank you, and good night.